Today is my first day of Google-Ai-course

The rise of language models:
// AI is slow in the start but its growth in the recent years is blow my mind

Only a decade ago, deep learning, a sophisticated class of machine learning methods that provides the foundation of modern language models (LMs), was still considered to be in its early days. However, in a few short years, deep learning and, along with it, research on language models, have risen to become one of the dominant areas within the field of machine learning.  


WHY LANGUAGE MODELING MATTERS :
1. Music generation: Many music traditions, from Brazilian samba to South African amapiano, follow structured patterns. AI models can generate rhythms, harmonies, and lyrics across a range of genres [5].

2. Protein science and drug discovery : Proteins are made up of sequences of amino acids, much like sentences. Models can be trained to predict protein functions and protein structure from these amino acid sequences. The resulting model allows us then to predict potential functions of newly discovered proteins, design new potential proteins, and may assist in drug discovery. For example, models like ProtNLM learn to predict text describing the functional properties of a given protein, defined by its sequence of amino acids  [6] .

3. Climate modeling and weather prediction : Meteorological data is a sequence of temperature, pressure, and atmospheric conditions. While traditional models rely on physics-based simulations, deep learning models have been used to enhance short-term weather prediction and climate modeling 


CAPTURING PATTERN WITH PROBABILITIES: 
   Generating language all comes down to learned rules and patterns. When forming sentences, your mind instinctively chooses words that naturally follow according to the patterns of the language. Aside from making occasional mistakes, your mind does not choose words that do not make sense.  

   Language models assign probabilities to the next word for a given context and use these probabilities to choose a likely next word. 

   In order to generate entire sentences or texts, the model repeatedly chooses a word according to the probability distribution over the next word and then adds the chosen word to the context. The model then uses this new context to predict the next word until a full sentence or text has been generated. 

WHY DO LANGUAGE MODEL USE PROBABILITIES:
   Language models predict probability distributions as this allows them to generate diverse and novel text by randomly sampling words. This approach prevents the model from always producing the exact same output for a given input, which would happen if it were a deterministic process. By combining probabilities with a sampling mechanism, language models can generate a wider range of creative outputs while still producing coherent text. In the next activity, you will create your own probability distribution and closely observe how the probability distribution impacts text generation.